# TLC-Project
This project develops a real-time density based dynamic Traffic Light Controller(TLC) using a Field Programmable Gate Array(FPGA) with Verilod HDL hardware description language inside Quartus II simulation software. We implement a low-cost and efficient alternative to traditional fixed time traffic light controllers which change light states after fixed time delays resulting into traffic congestion and unnecessary vehicle wait times. In our system we detect real time traffic density using an array of three IR sensors placed on each road of a four-road junction. The traffic signal of the road with highest traffic density(most active sensors) is set to green, and the other roads are set to red. When the traffic density in another road exceeds that of the current active road, the current road is set to red, and the new road is set to green. To mitigate the effects of too frequent switching of traffic signal between roads resulting in inefficiency, we set the signal to always stay active for a minimum delay period once a switching has taken place. In case two roads have the same number of active sensors, we set the roads with an inherent priority sequence. We also use sound sensors to detect emergency vehicles on a road and have designed our algorithm to assign highest priority to that road. Finally, we also use sensors to detect traffic infringements and deploy a camera module to take a picture of the license plate of the vehicle causing the infringement and send the picture to the relevant authorities.
